# Airflow - Breweries

This document aims to guide the installation and configuration of the `Airflow` environment.

## Project Structure

**Item**                                  |**Description**
|-----                                    |-----
config/                                   |Folder for various configuration files.
dags/                                     |Folder containing the dags/data processing workflows of `Airflow`.
logs/                                     |Folder for `Airflow` logs.
plugins/                                  |Folder for plugins and auxiliary libraries.
storage/                                  |Folder for local file storage.
.env-sample                               |Sample environment variables file.
airflow.cfg                               |`Airflow` configuration file.
docker-compose.yaml                       |File for running `Airflow` containers.
Dockerfile                                |`Docker` image file for creating `Airflow` containers.
requirements.txt                          |File containing the libraries necessary for the project.

## Requirements

* Python 3.9
* Python pip
* Docker
* Visual Studio Code
    * Docker Extension for VSCode

## Environment Setup with Docker

First, enter at the airflow-breweries folder.

Duplicate the `.env-sample` file to `.env`. You can set your own configurations or leave them blank.

Next, download the Google Cloud credentials and Spark configuration files and place them in the `config` folder.
(*To obtain the specific credentials for this project, contact the repository owner*)

Then, build the `Airflow` image:

```shell
docker build -t airflow-breweries .
```

Next, start `docker-compose` to initiate the `Airflow` containers:

```shell
docker-compose up -d
```

Check if your containers are running and healthy:

```shell
docker ps
```
Access the address [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) in your browser and verify if the `Airflow` interface is displayed.

Log in with the username `airflow` and the default password `airflow`.

Check if the `breweries` DAG is displayed.

You can now run the DAG and test its functionalities.